---
title: 'Using the cluster (HiPerGator)'
date: 2019-04-29
permalink: /posts/2019/04/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - hipergator
  - bash
  - linux
  - windows
---

If this is your first time using the cluster, I would advice to learn some basic bash scripting. Navigating your way through different directories and cluster would be a lot easier with basic bash commands such as
pwd,cd, mkdir, ls ( Note to self: I should make a post about it) 


Creating Account on Hipergator
------
To use the HiPerGator, you first need to have an account with UF research computing. To request an account, [submit the request here](https://www.rc.ufl.edu/access/account-request/)


Login onto the cluster
------
Depending on the operating system, logging in into the cluster can be easy or a bit tedious. 

For windows, download an SSH client such as [PuTTy](https://www.putty.org/) or [FireZilla](https://filezilla-project.org/).
Set up the SSH client. 
For PuTTy,
     
1. Download PuTTY to your local machine and start the program .
2. Next, connect to hpg.rc.ufl.edu.
3. When asked for the login prompt, type your username (which should be your GatorLink username)
4. Enter your password when prompted. You should be connected to the HiPerGator. 

If on Mac, open Terminal window, type

 `ssh USERNAME@hpg.rc.ufl.edu`

Replace USERNAME with your username. Enter the password when prompted. You should be connected to the HiPerGator.


Navigating your way on the cluster
------
Now that you are on the cluster, let us learn some basic commands to navigate your way. 
First  you need to know your location on the cluster. Type:

`pwd`

This should print out your "present working directory". If you are logging in for the very first time, HiPerGator should default to the home directory.

`/home/USERNAME`

To do any analysis, or run jobs, it is recommended that you work in the /ufrc directory. Since all the modules are loaded and compatible in the dev version. To change directory, use command :

`cd /ufrc/GROUPNAME/USERNAME`


Note that here groupname is your group account created by hipergator. ( If you are a grad student. this should be your PI's account). Replace groupname and username with your own information. 
